Notice: For more details, you can visit： https://github.com/VLPISEP/GUIofVLP/blob/main/Tutorial%20VLC%20ISEP%20testbed%20v2.docx

VLC with the visible light wavelength from 380nm to 850nm is considered as a complement to RF-based wireless communication since its spectrum is nearly one thousand times larger than RF. It is obviously discovered that VLC can be a valuable complement to the 5G/Beyond 5G (B5G) indoor network in communication. 
Based on H2020 IoRL and H2020 6G BRAINS research project, ISEP built a Visible Light Communication (VLC) testbed. Two kinds of application currently can be tested: laboratory Optical Wireless Channel（OWC）estimation and an indoor high accuracy positioning application based on visible light. This testbed will be helpful to do different research on different modulation methods, channel coding, channel estimation and physical layer design of VLC systems. Meanwhile, the light-based positioning algorithm and the testbed allow to access to real measured location databases for testing different Artificial Intelligent based positioning algorithm. 

With every passing day, our society is becoming more mobile with increasing requirements on data rates and localization accuracy. The major feature in every new emerging electronic product is wireless connectivity providing high data rate, flexibility, mobility and seamless coexistence with existing radio access technology, without the need of expensive wiring infrastructure. Actually, more than 75% of the wireless data traffic is using Wi-Fi indoor access points, while the remaining is covered by classical cellular networks. But these two wireless technologies are facing spectrum congestion, especially WiFi when a huge number of user equipment (UE) are present within a confined indoor space and requesting high traffic services, such as in conference, congress centers or shopping malls. On the other hand, a largely, so-far neglected part of the spectrum is the optical window spanning from infrared into the visible part of the spectrum on to ultra-violet frequencies. We believe that these frequencies are of great importance for future mobile communication solutions beyond 5G, not only due to the huge amount of unregulated spectrum offered, but because of an existing base of mature technology components stemming from fiber and free-space optical communications and synergies that can be exploited by building on existing illumination infrastructures. Visible Light Communication (VLC) is indeed gaining more and more interest due to its very high throughput performance in indoor and its security advantages both for privacy and health. Moreover, LEDs are becoming the predominant light source and could transform in the next coming years any light bulb into a LiFi access point, reducing a lot the extra wired infrastructure needed to implement the backhaul network, but also reducing drastically the user Electro-Magnetic Field (EMF) exposure that today explodes with Wi-Fi and becomes a health concern, as proven by the Loi Abeille promulgated in 2015 in France.  
To overcome the aforementioned conventional RF spectrum congestion in indoor and multiusers scenario, under the support of European H2020 research project IoRL,  in ISEP we built a Visible light communcation/Position testbed. This systme holds potential to overcome the position’s instability inherent to wireless channel thanks to the most multipath - free propagation brought by VLC. It can achieve decimetre to centimetre precision, using specialized “beaconing LEDs” as landmarks . VLC-IPS can be installed inexpensively since they utilize existing illumination systems with few modifications. It can be used in RF-inappropriate environments, like hospitals, underground mines, and gas stations. Another advantage of VLC-IPS is that there is less effect of multipath on visible light than on RF signal, so the position estimation could be more accurate. 
The main objective of the testbed is to provide a realistic visible light positioning testing environment for those experimenters 1) who working on optical wireless access technology. This testbed offers an indoor visible light communication wireless access. It can be used for analyzing and demonstrating that an innovative and data/energy/cost efficient communication system; 2) who working on indoor positioning algorithm and AI based positioning algorithm. The testbed provides a realistic measurement dataset in different indoor environment.   

